# Speakers Profile
---


Speakers Bio and Presentations
---
Name | Biography | Image | Presentation 
:---: | :---: | :--- | :--- 
*Collins Mosita Moringa* | Mr. Collins Misita Morang’a is a Bioinformatics Scientist at WACCBIP. He was a PhD research fellow at WACCBIP, funded by the Wellcome Trust DELTAS Programme at the University of Ghana. He finished his studies in Biochemistry from Egerton University and obtained his Master of Science Degree in Molecular Biology from Maseno University in Kenya. In his Ph.D., he is interested in using artificial intelligence approaches to classify the malaria infections, as well as deconvolution of transcriptomics and genomics data from asymptomatic and clinical malaria individuals. The secondary focus of his Ph.D. research is to identify regulatory mechanisms that dampen the activation of the Type I interferon pathway by sensing Plasmodium DNA during malaria infections. The regulation checkpoints can provide opportunities for therapeutic interventions against clinical malaria. | | 
*Biigba Bright* | Biigba Bright is my name. PhD Biodata analytics and computational Genomics. My research area is on Biogeographical ancestry, GWAS and Polygenic Risk scores. My MPhil work focused comparative Genomics of Helicobacter pylori. First degrees were in B.Sc Agric economics and Bachelor of Education. I have worked with USAID for 2 years as  consultant and also taught as a teacher before. | | 
*Winfred Gatua* | Winfred Gatua is a Wellcome Trust Molecular Genetics and Lifecourse Epidemiology Ph.D. fellow at the University of Bristol where she is currently working on integrating evidence from Mendelian Randomization and Randomised Controlled trials for drug discovery for human complex diseases. She holds a BSc in Biomedical Science and Technology from Laikipia University, a Post Graduate Diploma (PGD) in Health Research Methods from Pwani University, and KEMRI Wellcome Trust Research Programme, Kilifi, Kenya, and MSc Bioinformatics fellow, Pwani university. During her PGD Studentship, she investigated the transmission of Rhinovirus in coastal Kenya using partial and full-length genome analysis. For her master’s research project, she worked on the determination of recombination and recombination hotspots in published mitochondrial genomes of vertebrates and insects. Her research interests are in molecular epidemiology, genetics, drug discovery, and data mining. | [Career Prospects](https://github.com/mbbu/Mentorship_Program/blob/main/assets/presentations/Career_Prospects_01_07_2022.pptx) | 
*Alfred Ssekagiri* | Alfred is a Bioinformatics PhD student at Makerere University, working on in-silico based identification of novel HIV-1 drug resistant mutations. He doubles as a bioinformatics associate at Uganda Virus Research Institute. He holds a Master of science in Bioinformatics from University of Glasgow, Master of science in mathematical science from African institute of mathematical science and a Bachelor of science with Education from Makerere University. | | 
*Toheeb Balogun* | Balogun Toheeb is a first-class graduate of Biochemistry from Adekunle Ajasin University, Nigeria. He has published 20 research papers in top scholarly journals and presented them at numerous scientific conferences. Also, he is a certified reviewer of reputable international journals with strong research experience in bioinformatics and molecular biology. He was a recipient of the travel fellowship and the best oral presenter at the Nigerian Bioinformatics and Genomics Network 2nd Annual Conference. Also, he was selected for the prestigious Lower Saxony International Summer Academy organized by Hannover  Biomedical Research School, Germany. Currently, he is the director of research and development at the Institute of Bioinformatics and Molecular Therapeutics, Osun State, Nigeria. | | 
*Ovokeraye Oduaran* | Ovokeraye Oduaran is a postdoctoral researcher with a focus in metagenomics and microbial genomics. She received her PhD from the University of the Witwatersrand (Wits) in Johannesburg, South Africa, her MS from the George Washington University in Washington, DC and her BS from Washburn University in Topeka, Kansas. Voke is a past recipient of Fogarty’s Global Health Equity Fellowship and serves as the chair of H3Africa’s Microbiome Task Force. She is currently based at the Sydney Brenner Institute for Molecular Bioscience at Wits University. | |
*Ayomide Mary* | Ayomide is currently a PhD candidate at the John Innes Institute (UK) for the PhD Rotation Program in Plant and Microbial Science. She completed her Master's in Plant Science and Biotechnology at the University of Leeds, UK and served as a research assistant in the same laboratory. She has a solid background in microbiology. Her research interests include understanding how symbiotic and mutualistic microbial interaction of Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi (AMF) and Rhizobia with plants impact intercellular communication and plant growth. Ayomide is passionate about contributing her knowledge and skills to improving bioscience education and innovations in plant science for improved food security in Africa. | | 

---


